Ready for Release? (#20)
Snailed-It/FocusCuts-Site: _posts/2022-05-17-release-1.0.md

---
layout: post
title: Launching FocusCuts
date: 2022-05-17 17:00

> author: Rosemary Orchard

Author: The only reason why I added my name is because I had something about podcasting with David Sparks and contextual computing in there, we can ditch the author!

> author: Rosemary Orchard

Reviewer: I don't see the bit about podcasting (but that could be because GitHub on iOS is not the most easy app to use) but I don't think the contextual clause changes the authorship that much?  It's still pretty easy / obvious that you are a co-founder and you'll be making the Discord posts, talking about it on podcasts etc. that then help people know the connection?

---
Today, we are proud and excited to launch FocusCuts. 

When WWDC happened last year we got some great things, namely Shortcuts for the Mac and Focus Modes. But, there was one omission–at least in our view. Shortcuts can't tell you if a Focus Mode is enabled or, which Focus Mode is active. We quickly realised this information isn't something you can get on iOS, but you can find it on the Mac!

<figure>
<object type="image/svg+xml" data="/assets/auto/shortcuts.svg"></object>
<figcaption>The Shortcuts app with the FocusCuts actions</figcaption>
</figure>

> During development we also saw another opportunity—for a better menu bar application. The Shortcuts Menu Bar application is excellent, but it's always the same—whether you're on your work laptop or your personal device, if you're in movie watching mode or trying to get on with writing time. FocusCuts has a menu bar that is _contextual_. You choose which Shortcuts you want to appear in which Focus Mode, and those are what show up. If you want to skip the hassle of adding Shortcuts regularly (especially when building or reworking your automated productivity systems), then you can take advantage of the [folder watching](/help.html#watch-a-folder) functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During development we also saw another opportunity—for a better menu bar application. The Shortcuts Menu Bar application is excellent, but it's always the same—whether you're on your work laptop or your personal device, if you're in movie watching mode or trying to get on with some writing. With FocusCuts, however,  your menu bar is _contextual_. You choose which Shortcuts you want to appear in which Focus Mode, and those are what show up, keeping all the unnecessary clutter hidden out the way until you need it. If you want to skip the hassle of adding Shortcuts regularly (especially when building or reworking your automated productivity systems), then you can take advantage of the [folder watching](/help.html#watch-a-folder) functionality.
```

> We hope that the combination of useful actions inside Shortcuts, and smarter Shortcuts in your Menu Bar will earn a small place on your Mac.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope that the combination of useful actions inside Shortcuts, and smarter Shortcuts in your Menu Bar will earn FocusCuts a small place on your Mac.
```

---
Today, we are proud and excited to launch FocusCuts. 

> At WWDC 2021, the Mac received some incredible things, especially with the addition of Shortcuts for the Mac and Focus Modes. These two features further cemented the Mac as an incredible tool for power users, power, there was one omission—at least in our view. With Shortcuts, there is no way to tell if a Focus Mode is enabled or which Focus Mode is active. We quickly realised this information isn't something you can get on iOS, but you can find it on the Mac!

Reviewer: There were a couple of typos in my suggestion.  And then I basically ended up rewriting the entire thing…

```suggestion
At WWDC 2021, Apple announced that the Mac would be receiving some incredible updates with the release of macOS Monterey.  These announcements, especially the addition of Shortcuts for the Mac and Focus Modes further cemented the Mac as an excellent tool for power users.  In our view, however, there was one omission. There is no way to tell if a Focus Mode is enabled or which Focus Mode is active with Shortcuts. We quickly realised this information isn't something you can find on iOS, but you can on the Mac!
```

<figure>
<object type="image/svg+xml" data="/assets/auto/shortcuts.svg"></object>
<figcaption>The Shortcuts app with the FocusCuts actions</figcaption>
</figure>

> During development we also saw another opportunity—for a better menu bar application. The Shortcuts Menu Bar application is excellent, but it's always the same—whether you're on your work laptop or your personal device, if you're in movie watching mode or trying to get on with some writing. With FocusCuts, however,  your menu bar is _contextual_. You choose which Shortcuts you want to appear in which Focus Mode, and those are what show up, keeping all the unnecessary clutter hidden out the way until you need it. If you want to skip the hassle of adding Shortcuts regularly (especially when building or reworking your automated productivity systems), then you can take advantage of the [folder watching](/help.html#watch-a-folder) functionality.

Reviewer: I don't know how sentences work.

```suggestion
During development we also saw another opportunity; We could build a better menu bar application for Shortcuts. The Shortcuts Menu Bar application is excellent, but it's always the same—whether you're on your work laptop or your personal device, if you're in movie watching mode or trying to get on with some writing. With FocusCuts, however,  your menu bar is _contextual_. You choose which Shortcuts you want to appear in which Focus Mode, and those are what show up, keeping all the unnecessary clutter hidden out of the way until you need it. If you want to skip the hassle of adding Shortcuts regularly (especially when building or reworking your automated productivity systems), then you can take advantage of the [folder watching](/help.html#watch-a-folder) functionality.
```
